#

## The Practical Side of Black-Litterman and More


- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Reference](#ref)

### Introduction <a name="introduction"></a>

Forecasting expected return is a rewarding but challenging exercise. To attain some odds in this battle, we need to take into account of all relavant information. In such case, it is crutial to appropriately combine these information of likely distinct categories.

The Bayesian framework underlying Black-Litterman Model provide one such solution. As discussed in the previous blog ([Anchor Your Forecast the Bayesian Way](https://skybluerw.github.io/2023/07/27/anchor-forecast-bayesian.html)), this framework take all relavant information/forecast on expected return as variables with uncertainties and combined them in a Bayesian way to account for uncertainty.

There are still a lot more worth discussing of the Black-Litterman. In this blog, let's continue our journey on the pursuit of the refinement on expected return forecast. Specifically, let's delve more into the practical application of the model and more onthe idea of grind on all possible information source.  




**flow**

- open. very useful to combine forecast
- look further. practical choice
- no update on covariance -> \tau not necessary
- strategy a challenge task, the hope rely on combine multiple information source. from a finance perspective, different information for different horizon. from a statistical perspective, return for high variance, diversified information bagging/ensemble. 

The forecast of expected return stands as the most critical and challenging task in the investment management. .

In a previous blog ([Anchor Your Forecast the Bayesian Way](https://skybluerw.github.io/2023/07/27/anchor-forecast-bayesian.html)), we have discussed the bayesian framework underlying the Black-Litterman Model to combine various forecast on top of 

last BL, not mention calibration of variance related parameters. this blog talks about the calibration in practice. furthermore, this strategy of combine information underlying BL.

weighted average


calibration

- tau
- specifically omega
- specify omega in terms of tau for subjective view / Idozek. Active risk proportional
- boils down to shrink / with risk parity


strategy a challenge task, the hope rely on combine multiple information source. from a finance perspective, different information for different horizon. from a statistical perspective, return for high variance, diversified information bagging/ensemble. 

prior a special one 

implied confidence level

$$
\tau \Sigma
$$

as standard error of estimate of the implied equilibrium return 

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mu^{\star} &= \pi + \Sigma_{\pi}P^T(\Omega + P\Sigma_{\pi}P^T)^{-1} (Q-P\pi) \\
\mu^{\star}_{100} &= \pi + \tau\Sigma P^T (P\tau \Sigma P^T)^{-1}(Q - P\pi)\\
\mu^{\star}_0 &= \pi
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
x^{\star}_{100} &= (\lambda \Sigma)^{-1} \mu^{\star}_{100}\\
x^{\star}_0 &= (\lambda \Sigma)^{-1} \pi = x_0\\
\end{aligned}
$$

Idzorek specify confidence in terms of weight. Also in terms of active risk. Back out w required for this deviation. solving for w with least squares method.

idea

$$
\begin{aligned}
confidence &= \dfrac{\hat{x} - x^{\star}_0}{x^{\star}_{100} - x^{\star}_0} \\
\Omega &= \alpha P\SigmaP^T \\
\downarrow & \mu^{\star} = \pi + \tau \SigmaP^T(\Omega + \tauP\SigmaP^T)^{-1} (Q-P\pi) \\
\mu^{\star} &= \pi + \dfrac{1}{1 + \alpha}(P^{-1}Q - \pi)\\
\hat{x} &= (\lambda \Sigma)^{-1} (\pi + \dfrac{1}{1 + \alpha}(P^{-1}Q - \pi))\\
\end{aligned}
$$




special forecast: the one consistent with benchmark/market portfolio

tau

BL think uncertainty in mean return is much smaller than uncertainty in return. tau should be small

### Reference <a name="ref"></a>

- Walters (2013): The Factor Tau in the Black-Litterman Model
- Walters (2007): The Black-Litterman Model in Details
- Idzorek (2007): A step-by-step guide to the Black-Litterman model
- Haesen, Hallerbach, Markwat & Molenaar (2017): Enhancing Risk Parity By Including Views
